HTTP/1.0

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol. It is a generic, stateless, object-oriented protocol which can be used for tasks, such as name servers and object management systems, 
through extension of its request methods (commands). A feature of HTTP is the typing of data representation, allowing systems to be built independently of the data being transferred.


1.  Introduction

This specification describes the features that seem to be implemented in most HTTP/1.0 clients and servers. The specification is split into two sections. Those features of HTTP for which implementations are
usually consistent are described in the main body of this document. Those features which have few or inconsistent implementations are listed in Appendix.

HTTP allows an open-ended set of methods to be used to indicate the purpose of a request. It builds on the discipline of reference provided by the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), as a location (URL) 
or name (URN), for indicating the resource on which a method is to be applied. Messages are passed in a format similar to that used by Internet Mail and the Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME).

1.2  Terminology

- resource: A network data object or service which can be identified by a URI.
- proxy: An intermediary program which acts as both a server and a client for the purpose of making requests on behalf of other clients. Requests are serviced internally or by passing them, with possible
translation, on to other servers. A proxy must interpret and, if necessary, rewrite a request message before forwarding it. Proxies are often used as client-side portals through network firewalls and
as helper applications for handling requests via protocols not implemented by the user agen
- gateway: A server which acts as an intermediary for some other server. Unlike a proxy, a gateway receives requests as if it were the origin server for the requested resource; the requesting client
may not be aware that it is communicating with a gateway. Gateways are often used as server-side portals through network firewalls and as protocol translators for access to resources stored on non-HTTP systems.
- cache: A program's local store of response messages and the subsystem that controls its message storage, retrieval, and deletion. A cache stores cachable responses in order to reduce the response
time and network bandwidth consumption on future, equivalent requests. Any client or server may include a cache, though a cache cannot be used by a server while it is acting as a tunnel.

Any given program may be capable of being both a client and a server; our use of these terms refers only to the role being performed by the program for a particular connection, rather than to the program's
capabilities in general. Likewise, any server may act as an origin server, proxy, gateway, or tunnel, switching behavior based on the nature of each request.

1.3  Overall Operation

The HTTP protocol is based on a request/response paradigm. A client establishes a connection with a server and sends a request to the server in the form of a request method, URI, and protocol version,
followed by a MIME-like message containing request modifiers, client information, and possible body content. The server responds with a status line, including the message's protocol version and a success
or error code, followed by a MIME-like message containing server information, entity metainformation, and possible body content.

Most HTTP communication is initiated by a user agent and consists of a request to be applied to a resource on some origin server. In the simplest case, this may be accomplished via a single connection (v)
between the user agent (UA) and the origin server (O).

          request chain ------------------------>
       UA -------------------v------------------- O
          <----------------------- response chain

A more complicated situation occurs when one or more intermediaries are present in the request/response chain. There are three common forms of intermediary: proxy, gateway, and tunnel. A proxy is a
forwarding agent, receiving requests for a URI in its absolute form, rewriting all or parts of the message, and forwarding the reformatted request toward the server identified by the URI. A gateway is a
receiving agent, acting as a layer above some other server(s) and, if necessary, translating the requests to the underlying server's protocol. A tunnel acts as a relay point between two connections
without changing the messages; tunnels are used when the communication needs to pass through an intermediary (such as a firewall) even when the intermediary cannot understand the contents of the messages.

Any party to the communication which is not acting as a tunnel may employ an internal cache for handling requests. The effect of a cache is that the request/response chain is shortened if one of the
participants along the chain has a cached response applicable to that request.
Not all responses are cachable, and some requests may contain modifiers which place special requirements on cache behavior. Some HTTP/1.0 applications use heuristics to describe what is or is not a
"cachable" response, but these rules are not standardized.

On the Internet, HTTP communication generally takes place over TCP/IP connections. The default port is TCP 80.

The connection is established by the client prior to each request and closed by the server after sending the response. Both clients and servers should be aware that either party may close the connection
prematurely, due to user action, automated time-out, or program failure, and should handle such closing in a predictable fashion. In any case, the closing of the connection by either or both parties
always terminates the current request, regardless of its status.
